# bmsc-7810-pdba

Practical biological data analysis

# website  

https://rnabioco.github.io/bmsc-7810-pbda/


# adding content

We will use pull requests to add content to avoid clobbering the main branch. When generating new content, make branch (e.g. class4) synced with main. Then change to this branch for developing new content. 

The site is being built as a [`distill blog`](https://rstudio.github.io/distill/). This makes it easy to add new class content as blog posts, which don't require rerendering previous Rmarkdowns. 

To make a new post, follow the [distill blog tutorial]( https://rstudio.github.io/distill/blog.html)

Essentially, run `create_post` which will create a subdirectory and template Rmarkdown in `_posts`. 

```r
library(distill)
create_post("class-1", draft = TRUE)
```

Navigate to the Rmarkdown in the `_posts` subdirectory, add content, then knit and check output html file. If the content looks ready to publish, remove `draft: True` from the header, add the post directory to the list of posts in the `yaml` header of `classes.Rmd`, reknit the post, then rebuild the site using the `Build website` button under the `Build` tab in Rstudio. `Build website` will update the classes listed in the `Classes` tab, unless `draft: True` is set. Also note that `Build website` will copy all files in the project into `docs` unless you list the files/directories to ignore in the `_site.yml`.

E.g. exclude: ["data"] 

You can preview the website by viewing the index.html in the `docs` directory. 

Once satisfied with the content, commit the `.Rmd`, the `..._files` directory associated with the html, and associated files necessary for knitting the Rmd. The `docs` directory will be generated by a github action so it is not necessary to commit.

